All right guys, welcome back.
In this lecture, we're going to get our first
introduction to back-end languages,
and what better language to start with than Python?
Why is it named Python? You might ask.
Well, because pythons are huge snakes and
that is cool. As simple as that, moving on.
Now, remember, back-end languages are generally considered
to be more complex and at the same time more capable.
Back-end languages are designed for manipulating information,
making complex calculations, and most
of the "magic" of any web application.
If front-end is what displays the map and
adds buttons to your Google Maps,
the back-end is what calculates your route
given the weather, the traffic,
the distance, the time of the day, and about
50 other circumstances and variables.
Python is known for a couple of things.
One, it's known to be versatile, and two, it's especially
easy to learn, relative to other back-end languages.
Some of the languages we're going to talk about, like Ruby and PHP,
can only be made to manipulate web pages and work with servers.
Python, on the other hand, once you know how to use it,
you can write web apps, you can write desktop applications,
you can use it for things like data analysis and visualization,
you can use for numerical computing, web scraping,
and you can even use it in scientific computing applications.
You'll often see hospitals using
software that's manipulated by Python.
And it's because of that that it's considered a
general purpose programming language.
The second thing is that it's the easiest to
read and thus the easiest to learn.
It's called an "expressive language" because it
resembles very closely the English language.
One of the bigger things people get tripped up on
when they start learning how to program
is the list of unnecessarily complicated rules and required rituals.
Most languages make you include and
memorize things like periods, and hashtags,
curly braces, triple back slashes, multiple variations
of equal signs, it just goes on and on.
Take this little snippet of code, for example.
Ok, so this example you're looking at is PHP,
and what it says is that
"if a does not equal five then do something."
The exclamation point plus the equal sign means "does not equal,"
and the a in this case is what's called a variable.
We'll actually explain that later.
Really, don't try to think too hard on this stuff, because
we'll cover the basics actually in the next section.
If we got any of the characters wrong in this snippet
that we're looking at, then the command would be incorrect.
Now, here is the Python version.
It almost looks like someone spoke this out loud
verbally into their Siri, and then Siri just wrote it down.
Why memorize "exclamation point equal sign means is not"
if you can just remember "is not"?
So that's a big upside and appeal to this language
and a large reason why it's in demand.
It's widely considered the best first language to learn and it's
the most commonly taught language in universities.
Sounds great? Ok. Well, who uses it?
Well, the most notable is Google.
That Google Maps example I gave you is actually true,
they use Python to pull and display the information you need.
Other notables I can think of are YouTube, Dropbox,
even NASA makes a big stink about how much they love Python.
Now, not all that glitters is gold, and, of course,
Python has some issues it's dealing with.
First of all, because it's so simple and expressive, that means it's
what we call a high level language (remember that from before?).
High level languages are the farthest away from machine code.
The farther away from machine code you are,
the more efficient and easy you are to use,
but the less precise you can be with it.
Because Python skips over a lot of the
tediousness from other languages,
it can actually be harder to do certain things and have
a greater control over what you're trying to accomplish.
The downside to being a general purpose language is that,
and hopefully you've picked this up by now,
is that web code is designed to be understood by a browser,
desktop code to be understood by a desktop
operating system, server code by a server.
That means every time you use it, you have to install
other technologies to help interpret the code for you.
If you want to program Python for your desktop, then you need
to install a program that acts as an
interpreter for your operating system.
On a website, you also need an interpreter.
Does that mean anything to you and should it?
Well, sure, it's worth knowing this, because this is
a common problem across most languages.
Ok, let's recap.
Python is a very popular programming language that
can be used on all sorts of different applications.
It's also the easiest to learn and understand,
because it's the least complicated and
the closest to actual human language.
Google uses it, YouTube loves it, Dropbox loves it.
As a result, it's quite popular and in demand,
which means Python devs can be rather expensive.
All right, that's all you need to know about Python for now.
See you in the next lecture!